Start changelog for 7.8.0 (#18456)
elastic/beats: CHANGELOG.asciidoc

:issue: https://github.com/elastic/beats/issues/
:pull: https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/

[[release-notes-7.8.0]]
=== Beats version 7.8.0
https://github.com/elastic/beats/compare/v7.7.0...v7.8.0[View commits]

==== Breaking changes

*Affecting all Beats*

> - Introduce APM libbeat instrumentation, active when running the beat with ELASTIC_APM_ACTIVE=true. {pull}17938[17938]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduce APM instrumentation, which is active when running the beat with `ELASTIC_APM_ACTIVE=true`. {pull}17938[17938]
```

Reviewer: Can we drop "libbeat" from this description? Just thinking that libbeat is an implementation detail that end users don't really need to know about.

*Filebeat*

> - Improve ECS field mappings in panw module.  event.outcome now only contains success/failure per ECS specification. {issue}16025[16025] {pull}17910[17910]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve ECS field mappings in panw module.  `event.outcome` now only contains success or failure, as recommended by the {ecs-ref}/ecs-event.html[ECS specification]. {issue}16025[16025] {pull}17910[17910]
```

> - Improve ECS categorization field mappings for nginx module. http.request.referrer is now lowercase & http.request.referrer only populated when nginx sets a value {issue}16174[16174] {pull}17844[17844]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve ECS categorization field mappings for nginx module. `http.request.referrer` is now lowercase, and it is only populated when nginx sets a value. {issue}16174[16174] {pull}17844[17844]
```

> - Improve ECS field mappings in santa module. move hash.sha256 to process.hash.sha256 & move certificate fields to santa.certificate . {issue}16180[16180] {pull}17982[17982]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve ECS field mappings in santa module. `hash.sha256` is moved to `process.hash.sha256`, and certificate fields are now under `santa.certificate`. {issue}16180[16180] {pull}17982[17982]
```

==== Bugfixes

*Affecting all Beats*

- Fix goroutine leak and Elasticsearch output file descriptor leak when output reloading is in use. {issue}10491[10491] {pull}17381[17381]
- Fix panic when assigning a key to a `nil` value in an event. {pull}18143[18143]

*Heartbeat*

- Fixed TCP TLS checks to properly validate hostnames, this broke in 7.x and only worked for IP SANs. {pull}17549[17549]

*Metricbeat*

> - Further revise check for bad data in docker/memory. {pull}17400[17400]

Author: I changed the wording for this entry.

> - Add a switch to the driver definition on SQL module to use pretty names {pull}17378[17378]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a switch to the driver definition on SQL module to use pretty names. {pull}17378[17378]
```

==== Added

*Affecting all Beats*

- Update supported versions of `redis` output. {pull}17198[17198]
- Add `replace` processor for replacing string values of fields. {pull}17342[17342]

> - Add `urldecode` processor to for decoding URL-encoded fields. {pull}17505[17505]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `urldecode` processor for decoding URL-encoded fields. {pull}17505[17505]
```

- Add config example of how to skip the `add_host_metadata` processor when forwarding logs. {issue}13920[13920] {pull}18153[18153]
- Add backoff configuration options for the Kafka output. {issue}16777[16777] {pull}17808[17808]
- Add keystore support for autodiscover static configurations. {pull]16306[16306]
- Add Kerberos support to Elasticsearch output. {pull}17927[17927]
- Add support for fixed length extraction in `dissect` processor. {pull}17191[17191]

*Auditbeat*

- Add system module process dataset ECS categorization fields. {pull}18032[18032]
- Add system module user dataset ECS categorization fields. {pull}18035[18035]
- Add system module login dataset ECS categorization fields. {pull}18034[18034]
- Add system module package dataset ECS categorization fields. {pull}18033[18033]
- Add ECS categories for system module host dataset. {pull}18031[18031]
- Add system module socket dataset ECS categorization fields. {pull}18036[18036]
- Add file integrity module ECS categorization fields. {pull}18012[18012]
- Add `file.mime_type`, `file.extension`, and `file.drive_letter` for file integrity module. {pull}18012[18012]

*Filebeat*

> - Add source field in k8s events {pull}17209[17209]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add source field in k8s events. {pull}17209[17209]
```

- Added Unix stream socket support as an input source and a syslog input source. {pull}17492[17492]
- Improve ECS categorization field mappings in misp module. {issue}16026[16026] {pull}17344[17344]
- Enhance `elasticsearch/deprecation` fileset to handle ECS-compatible logs emitted by Elasticsearch. {issue}17715[17715] {pull}17728[17728]
- Make `decode_cef` processor GA. {pull}17944[17944]
- Added new Fortigate Syslog filebeat module. {pull}17890[17890]
- Improve ECS categorization field mappings in redis module. {issue}16179[16179] {pull}17918[17918]
- Improve ECS categorization field mappings in rabbitmq module. {issue}16178[16178] {pull}17916[17916]
- Improve ECS categorization field mappings in postgresql module. {issue}16177[16177] {pull}17914[17914]
- Improve ECS categorization field mappings for nginx module. {issue}16174[16174] {pull}17844[17844]
- Add support for Google Application Default Credentials to the Google Pub/Sub input and Google Cloud modules. {pull}15668[15668]
- Improve ECS categorization field mappings for zeek module. {issue}16029[16029] {pull}17738[17738]
- Improve ECS categorization field mappings for netflow module. {issue}16135[16135] {pull}18108[18108]

> - Added an input option `publisher_pipeline.disable_host` to disable `host.name`

Author: @andrewkroh Can you let me know the issue & PR for this line, and I'll add it to the changelog.

- Added an input option `publisher_pipeline.disable_host` to disable `host.name`

It's likely related to this commit:

```
commit 84078fbcb72baa361d87ae43884140b5401927df
Author: Andrew Kroh <andrew.kroh@elastic.co>
Date:   Tue May 5 13:19:43 2020 -0400

    Add a disable_host option to Filebeat inputs (#18159) (#18188)
    
    This adds a configuration option `publisher_pipeline.disable_host` to disable the addition
    of `host.name` in events. By default Filebeat adds `host.name` to all events and we want
    to be able to disable this for data sources that do not originate on the host (like cloud logs).
    
    Relates #13920
    
    (cherry picked from commit 6ea21a9c4b433ce4dff83d815f856fce17d16f4e)
```

> - Added an input option `publisher_pipeline.disable_host` to disable `host.name`

Author: I've fixed the missing links. 😄

- Improve ECS categorization field mappings in osquery module. {issue}16176[16176] {pull}17881[17881]
- Add support for v10, v11 and v12 logs on Postgres {issue}13810[13810] {pull}17732[17732]
- Add dashboard for Google Cloud Audit and AWS CloudTrail. {pull}17379[17379]

*Heartbeat*

- Add additional ECS compatible fields for TLS information. {pull}17687[17687]

*Metricbeat*

- Refactor windows/perfmon metricset configuration options and event output. {pull}17596[17596]
- Add more detailed error messages, system tests and small refactoring to the service metricset in windows. {pull}17725[17725]
- Stack Monitoring modules now auto-configure required metricsets when `xpack.enabled: true` is set. {issue}16471[16471] {pull}17609[17609]
- Add Metricbeat IIS module dashboards. {pull}17966[17966]
- Add dashboard for the azure database account metricset. {pull}17901[17901]
- Allow partial region and zone name in googlecloud module config. {pull}17913[17913]
- Add aggregation aligner as a config parameter for googlecloud stackdriver metricset. {issue}17141[17141] {pull}17719[17719]
- Move the perfmon metricset to GA. {issue}16608[16608] {pull}17879[17879]

> - Stack Monitoring modules now auto-configure required metricsets when `xpack.enabled: true` is set. {issue}16471[[16471] {pull}17609[17609]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Stack Monitoring modules now auto-configure required metricsets when `xpack.enabled: true` is set. {issue}16471[16471] {pull}17609[17609]
```

- Add static mapping for metricsets under aws module. {pull}17614[17614] {pull}17650[17650]
- Add dashboard for googlecloud storage metricset. {pull}18172[18172]

> - Collect new `bulk` indexing metrics from Elasticsearch when `xpack.enabled:true` is set. {issue} {pull}17992[17992]

Author: @ycombinator Can you let me know the issue number, and I'll add it.

> - Collect new `bulk` indexing metrics from Elasticsearch when `xpack.enabled:true` is set. {issue} {pull}17992[17992]

Reviewer 2: Oops, sorry, it should be 17977.

> - Collect new `bulk` indexing metrics from Elasticsearch when `xpack.enabled:true` is set. {issue} {pull}17992[17992]

Author: I've fixed this.

> - Remove requirement to connect as sysdba in Oracle module {issue}15846[15846] {pull}18182[18182]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove requirement to connect as sysdba in Oracle module. {issue}15846[15846] {pull}18182[18182]
```

- Update MSSQL module to fix some SSPI authentication and add brackets to USE statements {pull}17862[17862]]

*Winlogbeat*

- Set process.command_line and process.parent.command_line from Sysmon Event ID 1. {pull}17327[17327]

> - Add support for event IDs 4673,4674,4697,4698,4699,4700,4701,4702,4768,4769,4770,4771,4776,4778,4779,4964 to the Security module {pull}17517[17517]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add support for event IDs 4673,4674,4697,4698,4699,4700,4701,4702,4768,4769,4770,4771,4776,4778,4779,4964 to the Security module. {pull}17517[17517]
```

> - Add registry and code signature information and ECS categorization fields for sysmon module {pull}18058[18058]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add registry and code signature information and ECS categorization fields for sysmon module. {pull}18058[18058]
```
